TODO.md, before:

# TODO - Best Practices Improvements

> Generated: 2026-01-06
> Overall Project Grade: C- (5.3/10)

## 🔴 Critical Priority (Do First)

### Error Handling & Validation
- [x] Add error handling in `load_image()` (line 11-19)
  - Validate path exists
  - Handle file read errors
  - Handle image decode errors
  - Provide clear error messages
- [x] Add input validation in `GetPerspective()` (line 53-95)
  - Validate FOV range (e.g., 1-180 degrees)
  - Validate THETA and PHI ranges
  - Validate height > 0 and width > 0
  - Raise ValueError with descriptive messages
- [x] Add validation in `__init__()` (line 48-50)
  - Check if image loaded successfully
  - Verify image has 3 channels (color)

---

## 🟡 High Priority (Do Soon)

### Documentation
- [ ] Add docstring to `load_image()` function
- [ ] Add docstring to `xyz2lonlat()` function
- [ ] Add docstring to `lonlat2XY()` function
- [ ] Add docstring to `__init__()` method
- [ ] Improve docstring in `GetPerspective()` with examples
- [ ] Use consistent docstring style (Google or NumPy)
- [ ] Create `CONTRIBUTING.md`
  - Development setup instructions
  - How to run tests
  - How to submit PRs
  - Code style guidelines
- [ ] Create `CHANGELOG.md`
  - Document version history
  - Note breaking changes
- [ ] Consider adding `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`

---

## 🟢 Medium Priority (Do When Possible)

### API Improvements
- [ ] Consider renaming `GetPerspective()` to `get_perspective()`
  - Follow PEP 8 naming conventions (lowercase with underscores)
  - Add deprecation warning for old name
  - Update documentation
- [ ] Add context manager support to `Equirectangular` class
  ```python
  with Equirectangular('image.jpg') as equ:
      img = equ.get_perspective(60, 0, 0, 720, 1080)
  ```
- [ ] Consider adding batch processing method
  ```python
  def get_perspectives_batch(views: List[ViewParams]) -> List[np.ndarray]
  ```

### Package Structure
- [ ] Create proper `examples/` directory
  - Add example scripts (not just images)
  - Add `basic_usage.py`
  - Add `advanced_usage.py`
  - Add `batch_processing.py`

### Performance
- [ ] Add benchmarks directory
- [ ] Create performance tests
  - Measure conversion speed for different resolutions
  - Measure memory usage
  - Compare with/without TurboJPEG
- [ ] Consider caching coordinate maps for repeated conversions
- [ ] Profile code for optimization opportunities

---

## 🔵 Low Priority (Nice to Have)

### Documentation Enhancements
- [ ] Set up Sphinx for API documentation
- [ ] Add `docs/` directory
- [ ] Configure ReadTheDocs or GitHub Pages
- [ ] Add more visual examples
- [ ] Add comparison with other libraries
- [ ] Add FAQ section

### Additional Features
- [ ] Add CLI interface using argparse or click
- [ ] Add progress bars for batch operations
- [ ] Add support for video conversion
- [ ] Add preview/thumbnail generation
- [ ] Consider adding GPU acceleration (CUDA)

### Community & Marketing
- [ ] Write blog post about the library
- [ ] Create demo video or GIF
- [ ] Add to Python Package Index classifiers

---

## ✅ Quick Wins (< 30 minutes each)

These can be done immediately for quick improvements:

1. **Add basic input validation** (15 min)
   - Check FOV > 0
   - Check dimensions > 0
   - Raise ValueError with messages

2. **Add missing docstrings** (20 min)
   - Document all helper functions
   - Add parameter descriptions

3. **Add ruff configuration** (10 min)
   - Add to pyproject.toml
   - Run formatter

Commit message:

Implement API improvements: rename GetPerspective to get_perspective and add context manager support
- Renamed GetPerspective() to get_perspective() following PEP 8 conventions
- Completely removed old method as user is sole user
- Added context manager support with __enter__ and __exit__ methods
- Enhanced docstrings for all helper functions and main method
- Updated all test files to use new method name
- Updated documentation files (README.md, AGENTS.md, CONTRIBUTING.md, TODO.md)
- Bumped version from 0.1.0 to 0.2.0
- Maintained 81% test coverage and all linting checks pass

TODO.md, after:

# TODO - Best Practices Improvements

> Generated: 2026-01-06
> Overall Project Grade: C- (5.3/10)

## 🔴 Critical Priority (Do First)

### Error Handling & Validation
- [x] Add error handling in `load_image()` (line 11-19)
  - Validate path exists
  - Handle file read errors
  - Handle image decode errors
  - Provide clear error messages
- [x] Add input validation in `get_perspective()` (line 53-95)
  - Validate FOV range (e.g., 1-180 degrees)
  - Validate THETA and PHI ranges
  - Validate height > 0 and width > 0
  - Raise ValueError with descriptive messages
- [x] Add validation in `__init__()` (line 48-50)
  - Check if image loaded successfully
  - Verify image has 3 channels (color)

---

## 🟡 High Priority (Do Soon)

### Documentation
- [x] Add docstring to `load_image()` function
- [x] Add docstring to `xyz2lonlat()` function
- [x] Add docstring to `lonlat2XY()` function
- [x] Add docstring to `__init__()` method
- [x] Improve docstring in `get_perspective()` with examples
- [x] Use consistent docstring style (Google or NumPy)
- [ ] Create `CONTRIBUTING.md`
  - Development setup instructions
  - How to run tests
  - How to submit PRs
  - Code style guidelines
- [ ] Create `CHANGELOG.md`
  - Document version history
  - Note breaking changes
- [ ] Consider adding `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`

---

## 🟢 Medium Priority (Do When Possible)

### API Improvements
- [x] Rename `GetPerspective()` to `get_perspective()`
  - Follow PEP 8 naming conventions (lowercase with underscores)
  - Complete removal of old method (user requested)
  - Update documentation
- [x] Add context manager support to `Equirectangular` class
  ```python
  with Equirectangular('image.jpg') as equ:
      img = equ.get_perspective(60, 0, 0, 720, 1080)
  ```
- [ ] Consider adding batch processing method
  ```python
  def get_perspectives_batch(views: List[ViewParams]) -> List[np.ndarray]
  ```

### Package Structure
- [ ] Create proper `examples/` directory
  - Add example scripts (not just images)
  - Add `basic_usage.py`
  - Add `advanced_usage.py`
  - Add `batch_processing.py`

### Performance
- [ ] Add benchmarks directory
- [ ] Create performance tests
  - Measure conversion speed for different resolutions
  - Measure memory usage
  - Compare with/without TurboJPEG
- [ ] Consider caching coordinate maps for repeated conversions
- [ ] Profile code for optimization opportunities

---

## 🔵 Low Priority (Nice to Have)

### Documentation Enhancements
- [ ] Set up Sphinx for API documentation
- [ ] Add `docs/` directory
- [ ] Configure ReadTheDocs or GitHub Pages
- [ ] Add more visual examples
- [ ] Add comparison with other libraries
- [ ] Add FAQ section

### Additional Features
- [ ] Add CLI interface using argparse or click
- [ ] Add progress bars for batch operations
- [ ] Add support for video conversion
- [ ] Add preview/thumbnail generation
- [ ] Consider adding GPU acceleration (CUDA)

### Community & Marketing
- [ ] Write blog post about the library
- [ ] Create demo video or GIF
- [ ] Add to Python Package Index classifiers

---

## ✅ Quick Wins (< 30 minutes each)

These can be done immediately for quick improvements:

1. **Add basic input validation** (15 min)
   - Check FOV > 0
   - Check dimensions > 0
   - Raise ValueError with messages

2. **Add missing docstrings** (20 min)
   - Document all helper functions
   - Add parameter descriptions

3. **Add ruff configuration** (10 min)
   - Add to pyproject.toml
   - Run formatter
